Theme: MongoDB Cluster

Target: The mongod options

Below are some of the available options for mongod. Note that this is not a comprehensive list of all possible mongod configurations. To see all available options, run mongod with the help flag.

mongod --help

This command will output the various options for mongod with a description of their functionality.

Note: The --fork option is not available on the Windows operating system.

> dbpath

The dbpath is the directory where all the data files for your database are stored. The dbpath also contains journaling logs to provide durability in case of a crash. As we saw before, the default dbpath is /data/db; however, you can specify any directory that exists on your machine. The directory must have read/write permissions since database and journaling files will be written to the directory. To use the dbpath option, include the dbpath flag and specify the name of your directory:


> port 

The port option allows us to specify the port on which mongod will listen for client connections. If we don't specify a port, it will default to 27017. Database clients should specify the same port to connect to mongod. To specify a port, run:

mongod --port <port number>

> auth
auth enables authentication to control which users can access the database. When auth is specified, all database clients who want to connect to mongod first need to authenticate.

Before any database users have been configured, a Mongo shell running on localhost will have access to the database. We can then configure users and their permission levels using the shell. Once one or more users have been configured, the shell will no longer have default access. To enable authentication, run mongod with the auth option:

mongod --auth

> bind_ip

The bind_ip option allows us to specify which IP addresses mongod should bind to. When mongod binds to an IP address, clients from that address are able to connect to mongod. For instance, if we wanted to allow clients on IP address 123.123.123.123 to access our database, we'd use the following command:


mongod --bind_ip localhost,123.123.123.123


If using the bind_ip option with external IP addresses, it's recommended to enable auth to ensure that remote clients connecting to mongod have the proper credentials.

Reference page at: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/program/mongod/#bin.mongod




